#cs-514-final-project

Folder with test videos: https://drive.google.com/file/d/12aw3AT93oUftMA_AHxJd1Yp7WElT2q1L/view?usp=sharing


Overview of project— what problem are you solving, who is the client or target audience, and what is the plan moving forward for the project (after this class is over):

The problem I am solving is that some kids might not like solving math problems because they get bored or have a short attention span.
Because this website allows you to generate math problems related to a topic of interest, people will be able to find solving the problem more interesting, and learning math can become more fun and engaging!
The client or target audience would be anyone who wants to solve simple math problems or learn simple math. It would probably be students in elementary school (probably like first or second grade), since the math problems generated by chatGPT are pretty simple arithmetic.

My plan with this webiste moving forward is to implement the correctAnswer counter that I have started but have not implemented yet.
This will display the number of correct answers on the screen in addition to what I already have, which is just the number of questions the user answered.
I also want to implement an option that allows you to put in your grade level so that math questions of the corresponding difficulty can be generated. I think it would be interesting to see what types of questions are generated if you put your grade level as college level calculus. Since I work as a tutor for K-8 students, I could also have them test this website and see if it is effective at making solving math problems more fun.
I also want to continue working on the UI and make the website more colorful and look more like a game rather than a plain website. I think adding animations and AI generated images to go along with each question would make the website even more fun.

Database description— describe the tables in your database:

For my database, I used Firebase Firestore Database. The table in this database is called UserScore, and every time a new user logs in, it creates a doc with the unique ID associated with that person's gmail account. There are two keys which are correctCount and questionCount. Currently, I have only implemented questionCount, which shows the number of questions the user has answered, and it saves to the user's doc so every time they log in, they will still be able to see their questionCount from the last time they played. Logging in with a new email will create a new doc in the database with the email's unique ID, and questioncount will be initialized to 0. The data being stored in the database is the number of questions answered.


AI description— describe how Gen-AI is used in your application:

I used the library ai.peoplecode.OpenAIConversation to make calls to openAI to generate math word problems associated with the topic the user enters. My backend, which uses JavaSpring generates a question as follows:

```
public String getQuestion(@RequestParam String title) {

     String mathQuestion = conversation.askQuestion("Respond in json format with the following keys: problem, solutionDescription, answerChoices as an object with keys {A, B, C, D}, answer ", "Give me a math word problem involving " + title);

    return mathQuestion;
  }
```
the context sent to openAI is to respond in json format so that I can use the information in the AI call in the React frontend, and the question I ask openAI is to generate a math word problem involving the title the user inputs. In my Game.js file, I have a function that makes a call to the backend to get the AI question: 
```
    async function getAIQuestion() {
        // axios.get(`https://diesel-command-442122-v6.wl.r.appspot.com/chat?title=${title}`) // my url
        setLoadingQuestion(true)
        axios.get(`/getQuestion?title=${topic}`)
        .then(response => {
            setAIQuestion(response.data);
            setLoadingQuestion(false)
            console.log('respond from chat', response.data)   
        })
        .catch(error => {
        });
        // do whatever on submit
        console.log("submitted")
    };
```
Since I am running my backend on a local port, I can use axios to make a call to my Java file with ```axios.get(`/getQuestion?title=${topic}`)``` which waits for a response, and once the response is generated, I can set the AIQuestion as the data within the response.data. I am also able to use the answerChoices generated by chatGPT to set my answer choices with the following code:
```
    if (aiQuestion){
        const options = [
            { key: 'A', text: 'A: ' + aiQuestion.answerChoices.A },
            { key: 'B', text: 'B: ' + aiQuestion.answerChoices.B },
            { key: 'C', text: 'C: ' + aiQuestion.answerChoices.C },
            { key: 'D', text: 'D: ' + aiQuestion.answerChoices.D },
          ];
```
I then display these options on my website with
```
<ChoiceGroup options={options} label="Pick one" required={true} onChange={onSelect} />
```
which will allow a user to select a choice. I also used openAI to generate a solutionDescription, which describes how to solve the problem. This is returned as aiQuestion.solutionDescription, which I display after the user submits an answer, regardless of whether they got it correct or incorrect.
I really like the use of AI in this project because it makes the possibilities for the math question themes endless, and you can generate as many questions as you'd like with a variety of topics.


How to run/deploy: Give coders instructions on how to get started with the code

In order to run and deploy, first clone my project from github.

```
git clone https://github.com/carissaco/cs-514-final-project.git
cd cs-514-final-project
```
start the backend:
```
cd .\datastore-books-example\
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```
Now, start the React frontend in another terminal:
```
cd cs-514-final-project
cd react
npm install
npm start
```
Now, you can go to your [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/) on the web browser and start playing the game!

notes: I used fluent UI, which is a library from microsoft to get the nice looking UI for my website. 
